# Predicting-traffic-accident-severity-levels
The impact of traffic accidents is at large economically, costing hundreds of billion of dollars every year. Reduction of serious accidents can be quite a challenge. Understanding patterns of severe accidents will allow us to take on a proactive approach in implementing actions to alleviate financial burden and improve traffic efficiency. The approach will be a focus on keeping road conditions safe, the effectiveness will rely on accident severity prediction in relation to influencing factors. 
Predicting the criticality of traffic accidents will be a classification problem. The dataset will be categorized into different classes based on different parameters and the output variable of the classification algorithms will be a discrete value. Classification algorithm to be implemented: Naïve Bayes, Decision Tree, and Random Forest.
There are over 90 traffic and aviation accident related datasets on Kaggle, which varies by year and location. There are several accident related problems addressed in this domain. One of which is the comparison of the type of cars in relation to the number of accidents. https://www.kaggle.com/nikitagrec/cars-accidents-sales/log From the visuals of this analysis it can be concluded that California had the highest count of accidents and that coupes along with sedans were considered more dangerous than the other types. Traffic accident severity prediction has been done before, however there are various factors that can influence how detrimental an accident turns out to be. Therefore exploring different factors that impact the criticality of a car collision can provide a more complete examination of what can be done to alleviate it. Thus this study will augment previous analyses that have already been done in this space.

Authors: Ada Guan, Ruohan Dang, Kyle Lee

UCLAX COM SCI X 450.4 Michael Chang
